---
tags:
  - note
Project:
  - "[[Lean Polars]]"
Status: In progress
---
## Data types
In short, Polars supports all the major data types you would expect.
All of these data types support being `null` this is different to the value `NaN` which is reserved for floating point numbers. 
### String
To access Polars built-in string functionalities you need to access the str namespace which can be done by using `.str()` on a `Series`. This will then give you access to 40+ string functions. 
```rust
use polars::prelude::*;

let df = df! (
    "language" => ["English", "Dutch", "Portuguese", "Finish"],
    "fruit" => ["pear", "peer", "pêra", "päärynä"],
)?;

let result = df
    .clone()
    .lazy()
    .with_columns([
        col("fruit").str().len_bytes().alias("byte_count"),
        col("fruit").str().len_chars().alias("letter_count"),
    ])
    .collect()?;

println!("{}", result);
```

### Lists vs Arrays
tldr; Polars supports both, there's a lot of API overlap between the two so this mostly focuses on when one should be used over the other. 
#### List
These are used when you simply want to store 1D aggregates of homogenous type in a `Series`.
Much like with strings there are various built-ins that can be used with the `.list()` name space.
Lists can be created programmatically by using things like `.str().split(pattern)`.
You can also perform element-wise operations with lists. 
#### Array
These are for ND aggregates of homogenous type with a known shape in a `Series`.
Arrays are essentially the same as lists based on the fact they don't bother going over them in detail. 
#### When to use List or Array
Use `array` over `list` unless you cannot use list. Known shape op.

## Data structures
### Series
The first core component of a Polars `DataFrame` is the `Series`: a 1-dimensional homogenous data structure.
```rust
let s = Series::new("ints".into(), &[1, 2, 3, 4, 5]);
```
Above produces a series of integers 1-5 with the name ints. Think of it as a standalone column from a `DataFrame`.

The type of a `Series` is inferred unless you specifically cast it to another data type. 

```rust
let s = Series::new("ints".into(), &[1, 2, 3, 4, 5])
	.cast(&DataType::UInt64)
	.unwrap();
```
### DataFrame
The second core data structure is the `DataFrame`, this is a 2-dimensional data heterogenous data structure. 
Basically a collection of columns that need not be of the same type. 
