---
tags:
  - note
Project:
  - "[[Lean Polars]]"
Status: In progress
---
All notes prior to this one have been making use of the Eager API. Below will detail the usage of the Lazy API.
In general one should prefer using the Lazy API due to its greater efficiency, Polars does a number of optimisations through its query planner in the background. By using the Lazy API you remove the need to immediately evaluate each step and call in unnecessary data allowing the query planner to work more magic. 

The main reason to use the Eager API is when doing exploratory work or when you are explicitly interested in the intermediary steps. [[5. Lazy API#Lazy vs Eager example|In the example below]] you can see that the lazy version doesn't create the `DataFrame` until after all filters and selects are applied and as such we cannot view what would have been in the data at/before each step. 

## Query planner
### Predicate pushdown
This is when the planner will apply a predicate in a filter as early as possible in order to make sure you are only operating on as little data as possible as soon as possible. 
### Projection pushdown
This is similar except applied to selection thus ensuring you are only operating on the columns you actually need to use. 
### Explain
The explain method can be called on the query of the Lazy API, [[5. Lazy API#Lazy vs Eager example|see below]] we can call `explain` on the q create with the `LazyCsvReader`. This will provide a description of the query that is being created by the Lazy API.
This can also be applied to [[2. Expressions and contexts#Expression expansion|expression expansion]] to see how the expression will be expanded against an arbitrary `Schema`.
## Lazy vs Eager example
```rust
// Eeager
let df = CsvReadOptions::default()
    .try_into_reader_with_file_path(Some("docs/assets/data/iris.csv".into()))
    .unwrap()
    .finish()
    .unwrap();
let mask = df.column("sepal_length")?.f64()?.gt(5.0);
let df_small = df.filter(&mask)?;
#[allow(deprecated)]
let df_agg = df_small
    .group_by(["species"])?
    .select(["sepal_width"])
    .mean()?;
println!("{}", df_agg);

// Lazy
let q = LazyCsvReader::new("docs/assets/data/iris.csv")
    .with_has_header(true)
    .finish()?
    .filter(col("sepal_length").gt(lit(5)))
    .group_by(vec![col("species")])
    .agg([col("sepal_width").mean()]);
let df = q.collect()?;
println!("{}", df);
```