---
tags:
  - note
  - uni/paper
  - uni/planning
Project:
  - "[[Rightmove paper]]"
Status: In progress
---
## General
I need to focus more on the text stuff, that's the only really novel part of what I have accrued. The more useful stuff I have using it the better?

- [x] Run easy to run experiments
- [x] Note any that produce interesting results
- [x] Break up p_t and p_s_t into logical blocks.
- [x] Re-run as separate variables in regression.
- [x] Write up on overleaf (just a simple table with description)
- [x] Email Danny to ask what he thinks
- [ ] While you wait for his response start writing on the ones you think are the most promising (starting at the introduction).
- [ ] Add on to data, that's set in stone at this point. Nothing about that will really change at this point.
- [ ] Once I am done with the above add FE stuff to see how things look. 

## Experiments
### Easy to run
Remark no collapse
Remark collapse: tldr pretty similar results so far
#### Diamonds in the rough?
PROMISING

Sample splits/controls on average house price in a postcode relative to its outcode?
skill = diamond in the rough 
Would mean that skill is explained by operating in good areas within bad areas?
diamond in the rough = skill 
Would mean that skill explains the better area?
Could do the same with number of listings per postcode relative to other postcodes in outcode? Take largest then do percentage of largest?
#### Good agent splits
I could re-run these again. Maybe look at top quartile vs bottom quartile. 
If results play out nicely could show mainly just quartile but have higher specifications in the appendix. 
As increase do things get better, as decrease do things get worse. 
#### Speed vs Price
PROMISING
both FE on outcome and FE on FE are AMAZING
we get distinct findings from Gerardi!
Also stick even with PHATTY fixed effects applied!

Use FE for speed on price to see if you are good at speed you get bad prices.
Use FE for price on speed to see if you are good at price premium you are slow.
#### Speed on price reduction
PROMISING

If I do things quickly am I more likely to reduce the price of the listing, if I do do I do large reductions?
#### Average score/total score for text classication
MOSTLY GOOD, STC 60 is weird. Rest are poggers.

Clarity of text, the clearer the text is the higher the score should be. You'd expect good agents to show superior communication abilities. 
#### Add more objective vars to the FE specification
Removed pointless train shit, actually pretty good. Adding text vars has potential, see how it impacts main tables first.
If I add text vars, size and ctb to the data EVERYTHING becomes insignificant and I mean EVERYTHING.

This will cause a sample size drop (a significant one at that), but it will result in "cleaner" FEs
I could however drop the pointless train specifics and just use the average distance? I guess the other stuff is captured in the area FEs (hypothetically) while the distance is specific to the property. 
#### Add agent characteristics to the FE specification
CANT ADD TO FE SPEC NEED TO BE IN THE SIMPLISTIC HEDON MODEL 

Gerardi employ flat fee in the FE generation model, I could add things like developer/multi office etc. 
#### Split on investment properties
POSSIBLY PROMISING Might need a different specification.

Investment properties may be more willing to sell slowly in order to make as high an ROI as possible. My narrow time window likely precludes any economic factors from influencing sales speed preferences. 
#### Split by large estate agents
I think these could be cool?

Defined as Percentile of number of listings. Might be an easier way of showing improvements. 
#### Quadratics of learning
Still shit

Maybe I can improve the inference of learning by including quadratics? It would make sense that eventually there would be a cut off for improvements from learning. 
#### Agent market dominance
ACTUALLY CROGGERS

Look at what percentage of the market is listed by a given agent, postcode and outcode level. 
#### Sales per time period
Could be a sign of effectiveness that I am missing. 
#### STC continuum
Look at STC as a non-boolean.
#### Performance in year 1 -> More listings
I could break this down to months, quarters or years. 
Does high performance in one month lead to greater number of listings in future months?
#### Performance in year 1 -> greater performance
Similar idea but do we see agents (offices) improving over time. 
Could do splits based on percentile. Maybe see if people move quartile over time?
#### Rising stars
Building on the idea from [[0. Thoughts#Performance in year 1 -> greater performance|above]] we could consider rising start agents that have moved up in the performance quartile and see what makes them tick?
Look at how their values change between bad quartile and good quartile. Maybe use percentile increases to make sure it's a large increase. 
Could do some fuzzy RDD?

### Require data from db
#### Removed vs Sold
If I added delisted back into the pool we get really cool results here!

We could look at this as a way of showing utter failure from the agents. If something is removed but not sold we can infer that this is because the agent was doing poorly and the client pulled the property from them. 
Ideally we could prove this by following the property to another agent, I don't think this is possible for me. 
What I can do as a 2 stage thing is the following:
- Experiment solely on probability that property is removed and not sold
- Refine by only looking at properties that were removed after N days/weeks as maybe a removal was simply because the listing was borked. 

## Expansions
### Easy to run
#### More levels of FEs
Based on [[Rightmove references#Gerardi|Gerardi]] I can show some robustness stuff by highlighting looser to tighter fixed effects. I think I Can use their exact reasoning from [[4. Results#Page 4|results page 4]] to use additive and multiplicative FEs as my main robustness check.

#### Hedonic model with Agent characteristics
Based on [[4. Results#Page 8|results page 8]] I can use agent characteristics in the hedonic model as a way to characterize how well the agents do based on some of their characteristics. So I could do combinations of Agent is X as a control and then see how that impacts on other characteristics. 
So agent is Developer, how does that impact their relationship with Y. 
And just simpler things like high volume agent > price or speed?

#### Displaying percentile breakdown of agent
Look at table 8, I think that's all that needs to be said really. Could also use a histogram. But I think this is better?

#### Do plots of FEs with 1 FE as the X and the other FE as the y