---
tags:
  - note
Project:
  - "[[Epc paper]]"
Status: In progress
---
# Main results (Whole sample)
Explanatory power ($R^2$) is very high for these, but I am kinda cheating with my insanely tight specification and a large sample size.

I could do splits on my fun extra tables to see what happens there?
Although I really think I have enough tables as is at the moment...

## Table 0 DID
- Price PFA: t positive (0.0256 \*\*\*), p nothing, int positive (0.0135 \*\*)
- CO2 emissions PFA: t negative (12.6124 \*\*\*), p nothing, int positive (1.8206 \*\*\*)
- Value of investments made: t nothing, p nothing, int positive (0.0289 \*\*\*)
- Number of investments made: negative (0.4618 \*\*\*), p nothing, int positive (0.2070 \*\*\*)
- Current energy efficiency: positive (0.1043 \*\*\*), p nothing, int negative (0.0264 \*\*\*)
- Current environmental impact: positive (0.1287 \*\*\*), p nothing, int negative (0.0274 \*\*\*)
### Interpretation
#### Price PFA
Being a new dwelling in general results in a higher valued property. I think this makes sense due to the kind of properties that are being made, there's a consensus that we are building lots of "luxury" homes rather than affordable homes so it would make sense that a new dwelling would be worth more than an old dwelling. 
Being a new dwelling after the law takes effect seems to also have a positive impact on the value of a new dwelling, although this effect is marginal. This can be explained by the higher expected rigour for these new properties, this being a positive driver of property value can be evidenced by the fact that EPC metrics have a positive impact on price.

#### CO2 emissions PFA
Being a new dwelling lowers the CO2 emissions of a property, I think this makes sense as I would expect that new properties would be greener than old ones. Especially really old ones. ==Citation needed==.
Being a new property after the law takes effect however seems non-sensical as it should have the opposite effect. 

#### Value of investments made
Being a new dwelling in general has no impact on the value of investments being made. I can see why this would be the case, being a new property likely has no impact on the value of investments you would make relative to an older property as the cost of improvement may be somewhat fixed. 
Being a new dwelling after the law has a positive impact on the value of investments made, I can see how that would occur as I have seen some reports that this law will have a negative impact on the energy and environmental efficiency ratings of new dwellings ==Citation needed==.

#### Number of investments made 
Being a new dwelling has a negative impact on the number of investments made, I can see why this would be the case. Being a new property comes with some expectations (especially considering the bias towards luxury properties.) as one would expect a decent number of investments have already been made for you at the time of building the property. I could use the fact that new dwellings almost all have triple glazing as a good example here. 
The interaction term is positive which has the same implications as above so the same citation would be needed. 

#### Current energy efficiency rating
Being a new dwelling has a positive impact on the current energy efficiency rating, this makes sense for the same reasons as I mentioned previously. If new properties already come with various improvements baked in that older properties do not have it would make sense that their ratings are higher on average. 
The interaction term however is negative, which can be explained by the same effect that was brought up earlier. Where the newer standards would depress EPC ratings.

#### Current environmental efficiency
This is just a carbon copy of the above so I may as well just include these as a joint point.

#### Notes
I think there is some story telling that can be done with these results as well as by exploiting some of the summary statistics regarding property characteristics.

## Table 1 Impacts on property value
- Value of investments made: positive (0.0655 ln \*\*\*)
- Value of investments made per SQM: positive (0.0237 ln \*\*\*)
- Number of investments made: positive (0.0093 ln \*\*\*)
- Current CO2 emissions: negative (0.2583 ln \*\*\*)
- Potential CO2 emissions: negative (0.1183 ln \*\*\*)
- Current environmental impact: negative (0.0332 ln \*\*\*)
- Potential environmental impact:: negative (0.0535 ln \*\*\*)

All of these make wonderful sense and shows that investments are rewarded. Here there is sadly less to say about the potential vs current hen compared with table 2.

### Interpretation
#### Value of investments made
This make perfect sense, a property that has had investments made should receive some form of price premium or otherwise the investment would be ineffective. ==At some point I want to try and incorporate the separate investment types to look at this in more detail. I just think it might be too much for this paper.==

#### Value of investments made per SQM
Basically identical to the above.

#### Number of investments
This makes the same amount of sense although it is interesting to note the decreased size of the coefficient despite the fact that the values are smaller which would suggest that maybe the relationship should be larger in my mind. UNLESS, this is encapsulating to some extent the idea that it is not just *that* you invest but *what* you invest in. It could be that the more expensive investments are the ones with a real pay off. ==This further points to the usefulness of the above.==

#### Current CO2 emissions
Properties that cause more CO2 emissions having a lower overall value makes sense, if a property creates more emissions it's probable that the property is more expensive to run/doesn't have good heating/lighting/whatever. This would then lead to the property having an effectively lower ROI due to the increased costs of maintaining the property, ==I could point to the results from the costing table or the impact of EPC ratings on pricing to further evidence this point.==

#### Potential CO2 emissions
Properties with a higher potential CO2 emission are still receive a negative price premia, this makes intuitive sense as this is congruent with the current CO2 emissions. I think the most interesting part of these results is the fact that the potential coefficient is lower than the current coefficient which to me makes sense as the potential value being higher is much less impactful to a current purchasing decision than the potential. Do I care if the potential is X higher or if the current is X higher. I would have to put in investments to reach the potential anyway? ==Although I think it could be argued both ways.==

#### Current environmental impact 
==This is actually a terrible result this should be removed. Try the energy efficiency and see if we get the expected result if not remove please.==

#### Notes
We have a similar ability to use some story telling here to keep the results interesting.

## Table 2 Costs on property value
- Current lighting cost: negative (0.1933 ln \*\*\*)
- Potential lighting cost: negative (0.2213 ln \*\*\*)
- Current water heating cost: negative (0.0135 ln \*\*\*)
- Potential water heating cost: negative (0.0476 ln \*\*\*)
- Current heating cost: negative (0.1172 ln \*\*\*)
- Potential heating cost: negative (0.1272 ln \*\*\*)

Interesting that a higher potential cost has a higher impact on property price showing that people seemingly take into account the potential for a property to be improved into their discount.

#### Interpretation
#### Current (no point splitting the interpretation is the same for them all anyway)
A higher cost leading to a lower price makes perfect sense, if a property costs more to run you are effectively losing out on "income" even if you are not renting it. If you own the property you are directly incurring the costs, which results in your effective income being decreased meaning your property is an increased burden financially leading to lower ability to invest/enjoy your money. Any capital gain on sale will be partially offset by an increase in running costs of the property. 
Interestingly across the board the potential cost is more impactful than the current cost. ==This is in contrast to [[1. Data Planning#Potential CO2 emissions|Potential CO2 emissions]] which sees the opposite effect, I think it may be worth ignoring the Potential CO2 emissions interplay with current CO2 emissions as it would be a harsher on this and I think this is more interesting.== I think this might be because a property that has low potential has a potential investment advantage over an identical property since it has a lower potential cost it will be an objectively superior investment to the same property with a lower potential. While current values only have a short term impact, however said impact is material meaning they should still be priced in... Which they are. 

#### Notes
I love this section, it's so good.

## Table 3 efficiencies
### Table 3-1 energy efficiency
- Hot water: negative (0.0101 ln \*\*\*)
- Floor: nothing
- Window: negative (0.0185 ln \*\*\*)
- Wall: nothing
- Roof: positive (0.0032 ln \*\*\*)
- Main: negative (0.0101 ln \*\*\*)
- Main c: negative (0.0098 ln \*\*\*)
### Table 3-2 environmental efficiency
- Hot water: negative (0.0022 ln \*\*\*)
- Floor: nothing
- Window: negative (0.0039 ln \*\*\*)
- Wall: negative (0.0011 ln \*\*\*)
- Roof: positive (0.0015 ln \*\*\*)
- Main: negative (0.0024 ln \*\*\*)
- Main c: nothing

Basically the only one here that makes any sense is the roof, which is also congruent with the new dwellings only version. Everything else is gibberish though... So, kinda annoying.

### Interpretation
This entire table sucks... except for the roof. ==It may be worth re-running this with only old properties to see if this improves things.== This would need to be an improvement here without impacting any of the other results though. I suppose the only saving grace here is that the coefficients are pretty miniscule.

## Table 4 cost to relevant EPC metric
I'm looking at bot the energy efficiency and the environmental efficiency in one... because reasons. The effect is consistent so I can always remove them if need be. 
- Hot water: both negative ln \*\*\*
- Floor: energy negative ln \*\*\*
- Roof: both negative ln \*\*\*
- Window: energy negative ln \*\*\*, environmental ==positive== ln \*\*\*
- Main heat: both negative ln \*\*\*
- lighting: both negative ln \*\*\*

### Interpretation 
#### As an aside
This is mainly just a table to show that things make sense, so the fact that things make sense is great!

#### Hot water/Roof/Main heat/Lighting
Both values being negative here is in my mind the best outcome, it would make sense that something that is environmentally good would in general show have the same relationship with costs as a energy efficiency improvement (it would be weird for something that is good environmentally to not be energy efficient).

#### Floor
The energy efficiency part I think is the most important to be positive here. I don't mind the environmental efficiency here being neutral, maybe a vinyl floor is more energy efficient but isn't environmentally efficient while a wood floor might be both so maybe the average is an offset?

#### Window
The fact that that energy efficiency is negative but environmental efficiency is positive is hard for me to reconcile, unless maybe there's the whole plastic element? I don't think modern super glazing comes in wood? So maybe that's what brings it down? But that's a real stretch.

#### Notes
I really like this table, it actually has me getting a bit of a half chub.

## Table 5 glazing
Including both the amount of glazing and the glazed proportion because y'know it makes genuine sense. ==Maybe some kind of interaction could be useful here?==
- On Number of investments: both negative level/ln \*\*\*
- On value of investments made: both negative level/ln \*\*\*
- On CO2 per FA: both negative (larger than the rest) level/ln \*\*\*
- On current energy consumption: both negative level/ln \*\*\*
- On current heating cost: both negative level/ln \*\*\*
- On window energy efficiency: both positive level/ln \*\*\*
- On window environmental efficiency: both positive level/ln \*\*\*

All of these are stellar, I like these very much. These all line up with exactly how they should be logically. 

### Interpretation
#### Number of investments/Value of investments
Both being negative here makes sense, one of these "easiest" things I can do to improve my EPC as well as my heating costs is to improve my window glazing. This has an impact on costs as well as my emissions so I am doubly incentivised to do this upgrade. Also we note that heating is one a big driver of investment with stuff that is already heated not doing as much investing. As such if I already have good glazing and most of my property is already glazed a lot of my incentive is gone.
==Could add some heating controls into this to show if they further push the needle or not==

#### CO2 PFA/Energy consumption/Heating cost
This makes so much sense, especially the high magnitude. This is the most direct relationship that this would have. By improving glazing we improve the property's heat retention which reduces the need for heating, which in turn reduces carbon emissions/energy consumption. 

#### Window efficiencies
Considering the whole point of glazing is to make your windows more efficient I would be terrified if this wasn't the case. 

#### Notes
This section is just plain beautiful.
## Table 6 already invested in green stuff
Wind turbine cost high, may lead to more investment. 
Also can have insane power, so could just be a super positive experience leading to more investments. A good one could Power Leona's house in 6 hours... for a week. 

Solar heating -> heat pump expensive and difficult, so could have some kind of lock in issue. Solar on roof, pump on ground.
Could also be a bit shit, so might be the last thing you would do (it's not very sunny here).

- Solar water heating
	- Number of investments made: negative (1.0307 \*\*\*)
	- Value of investments made: negative (0.0697 \*\*\*)
	- Current water heating: negative (0.3351 \*\*\*)
- Wind turbine
	- Number of investments made: positive (0.1838 \*\*\*)
	- Value of investments made: nothing

#### Interpretation
#### Solar heating
##### Number/value of investments made
I like Leon's hypothesis here, generally low ROI in the UK also relatively cheap. But well advertised and have government grants, so a likely first investment and possibly might leave people burned due to their low ROI ==Citation needed.==

##### Current water heating
Makes sense, even if it's shit the Sun is still free. if it didn't have a negative impact we'd have some serious issues here. ==Might be good to get a measure of the average cost of the solar panel installation, that way we can measure the expected cost on the ROI from the regression coefficient.==

#### Wind turbine
##### Number/value of investments made
I like Leona's hypothesis here, these are expensive but offer a potentially MASSIVE ROI. Someone that can make this investment is more likely to be able to afford more investments and they also are likely to get a high return see figures above. This would further incentivise engaging in more investments later down the line.

## Table 7 main EPC values on investment
- Current energy efficiency
	- Number of investments made: negative (1.5313 \*\*\*)
	- Value of investments made: negative (0.0597 \*\*\*)
- Potential energy efficiency
	- Number of investments made: nothing
	- Value of investments made: negative (0.0167 \*\*\*) \[Lower than current so kinda good I think?]
- Current environmental impact
	- Number of investments made: negative (2.6691 \*\*\*)
	- Value of investments made: negative (0.0931 \*\*\*)
- Potential environmental impact
	- Number of investments made: negative (0.1247 \*\*\*)
	- Value of investments made: negative (0.0138 \*\*\*)

I actually love these... tehe.
The higher your rating is the less investments you make kinda makes sense. Would be interesting to include a quadratic here to see if there is some kind of inflection point.

#### Interpretation
#### Current energy efficiency
##### Number/value of investments made
Both of these are negative. If my property is already efficient why would I invest more?

#### Potential energy efficiency
##### Number/value of investments made
Number is nothing but value is negative. ==This is fine, but I think the potentials (all of the ones in this section) could benefit from including the difference as a control to control for instances where the current is similar to the potential.==

#### Environmental impact
Both current and potential are effectively the same, we can also re-use the interpretation from [[1. Data Planning#Current energy efficiency|Current energy efficiency]].

## Table 8 heating stuff and investments.
- Proportion of heated rooms
	- Number of investments made: negative (1.9024 \*\*\*)
	- Value of investments made: negative (0.0928 \*\*\*)
- Unheated corridor length
	- Number of investments made: positive (0.0180 \*\*\*)
	- Value of investments made: nothing
- Mains gas flag
	- Number of investments made: negative (0.9332 \*\*\*)
	- Value of investments made: (0.0077 \*\*\*)

#### Interpretation
#### Proportion of heated rooms
##### Number/value of investments made
I like this, it plays into my narrative of heating is the only thing that truly matters here. We are willing to swelter in the Summer, but we hate being cold in the Winter. Both number and value are negatively related with how much of the house is heated. Although I suppose you could make the argument that a large amount of heating could benefit from cost improvements, but I guess the counter is that EPC improvements are focused more on insulation measures rather than directly heating the property. I suppose a house with no heating would be the best EPC wise all else equal.

#### Unheated corridor length
##### Number/value of investments made
It would be nice if both of these were positive but I will take just value

#### Mains gas flag
##### Number/value of investments made
==I suppose I am kinda abusing the definition here. But, having a gas meter increases the likelihood that you have central heating. Central heating is poggers, although I guess electric boilers exist right?  So maybe that's unfair.==
#### Notes
I may need to re-think the mains gas flag results I think I jumped the gun a bit.
## Table 9 investment on ... investment
Leona: Extension makes bigger, makes greener more expensive. How concise.
- Extension count
	- Number of investments made: negative (0.1994 \*\*\*)
	- Value of investments made: negative (0.0111 \*\*\*)
- Lag number of investments made
	- Number of investments made: positive (0.1063 \*\*\*)
	- Value of investments made: nothing
- Lag value of investments made
	- Number of investments made: positive (0.5483 \*\*\*)
	- Value of investments made: positive (0.3350 \*\*\*)

#### Interpretation
#### Extensions count
#### Number/value of investments made
Both being negative is perfect here. If I have invested in an extension I have made a decision that likely comes with an opportunity cost due to people not having infinite money. By opting to invest in an extension I have likely forgone an investment in EPC recommendations. ==May be good to look at a cumulative count, IE look at changes in extension count.==

#### Lag number of investments made
##### Number/value of investments made
This only impacts number of investments made, which I think makes sense? Making an investment would imply that the owner of the property cares about their EPC rating/the outcomes of enacting on an recommendation. But just making an investment does not necessitate that you will invest in a more expensive investment. 

#### Lag value of investments made
##### Number/value of investments made
To me this makes perfect sense to both be positive, if I can afford to make a larger investment it would make sense that I could then in future be able to afford an even larger investment. I had the money to save once, now that I have likely lowered my bills I could save again faster or save larger. I also may be incentivised to do it again by the cost savings. For a similar reason I think it makes sense to have positive relationship with the number of investments made. 

# Owner occupied (Whole sample)








