---
tags:
  - note
  - uni/paper
  - uni/reading
Project:
  - "[[Rightmove paper]]"
Status: Not started
---
## Gerardi
### TLDR;
The long and short is that this entire section is about not just presenting the facts of the matter when it comes to our results but to also make sure that we talk about the story of our results. What the results mean in real terms, what are they showing? Are they saying that this means that X% increase would imply blah blah is improving or that this X% increase is caused by some factor that we are measuring. 
Think of the entire section being, from table 1 we found ... this lead us to look into ... which is shown in table 2, this has the possible issue of ... which is covered in table 3. 
### Summary
#### Page 1
Summary stats, if we are doing splits mention percentage of the data they make up. 
Any interesting differences between groups, IE X group has Y% higher sales prices than Y group.

Show that without Agent FEs that their findings make logical sense when looking at previous literature. I assume this is stuff like size and number of bedrooms leading to higher prices for example. They also include stuff like views (I don't think I can use the agent text chars here? Maybe I could split the property types into broader groups and use those as dummies Detached > Semi > Terraced for example).
I need to find literature that agrees with coefficients. 

They have a new home marker (I believe I also have that somewhere).

#### Page 2
Discussing results from tables (shocking I know).
Goes into detail about coefficient interpretation. 
They do some rough napkin maths on how much the flat fee brokers have saved relative to if they went with a normal broker. 

#### Page 3
Repeat page 1 and 2 but in the context of DOM instead of sales price. 

#### Page 4
Robustness tests (in their case stricter fixed effects, I think I am kinda doing this by starting at the MAX.)

#### Page 5
Going on about more experiments.

#### Page 6
More experiments.

#### Page 7 
You guessed it.

#### Page 8 
This possibly highlights a new model specification I can look at, instead of solely doing FEs on blah blah. 
We can include agent characteristics in the initial hedonic model to see how much of an impact they have. 

#### Page 9 
This is where they actually use the FEs. I think I have been severely restricting myself by only looking at the FEs. I am a fool!

#### Page 10
Talking about the kdensity plots.
Scatter plot with FEs as X (price) and Y (DOM).

#### Page 11
Explains motivation for scatter plot. 
Evidence on negotiation (I can't do this).

#### Page 12
Looking at good agents. 
They also break down information about the individual agent, I can only do this on an office basis for obvious reasons. 

#### Page 13
Looking at the persistence of high performance over time (I cannot examine this).

#### Page 14
Does the market reward higher performing agents? I could have a brief look at this? Since I have a few years. 

#### Page 15-end
Hotness (I could try this but hard).

### References
#### Page 3
[Listing price and time on market](https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/abs/10.1111/j.1540-6229.2010.00279.x)
[Listing price and time on market](https://link.springer.com/article/10.1007/BF00217393)