---
tags:
  - note
  - "#git"
Project:
  - "[[Learn Git]]"
Status: Finished
---
## What is it?
Well the config is well the configuration for your git, this can be managed at a number of levels. 
- global
	- This means any change you make to your config is applied to all gits.
- local
	- This means that any change you make to your config is only reflected in this specific repo. 
- system
	- Haven't really heard when you would use this. 

## What can you do with it?
### add
You can use `--add` to store information, I assume this is useful for something but for now we will just look at some toy examples.
`git config --add --local example.key value`
`git config --add --local example.key2 value2`
`git config --add --local example2.key value`

This will result in the following appearing in your repo level `.git/config` file. 
```txt
[example]
	key = value
	key2 = value2

[example2]
	key = value
```

### get
You can use `--get` to fetch values from your config.
`git config --get --local example.key`
`git config --get --local example2.key`
These will result in the following output. 
```bash
value
value
```
In the case where there are multiple of the same key in a config file the most recent (bottom) key value pair will be got. 
### unset
You can use `--unset`  to remove a key/value pair from your config
`git config --unset --local example.key`. This means that `key = value` will be removed from our config
`--unset-all` can be used to unset a key with multiple values, eg I could remove all `key = x` pairs below. 
```txt
[example]
	key = 1
	key = 2
	key = 3
```

### remove-section
`--remove-section` can be used to remove an entire section. 
`git config --remove-section example`
